---
layout: single
title: "Pre-Course 2025 — Orientation For New GL/CL Students"
date: 2025-09-08
---

Begin your academic journey with our 5-day orientation event!

The pre-course is an opportunity for incoming General and Computational Linguistics students to get a first introduction to their degree through talks, guided workshops, and tours held by students from the Fachschaft and some of your tutors.

**Please bring a laptop** (+ charger).

**ALL** students (both GL and CL) are strongly recommended to obtain a laptop for their studies NOW - e.g. there are mandatory programming courses scheduled for the first semester of the Bachelors.

## Schedule
Mon, Oct 13th 11:00 - 13:00

Tue, Oct 14th 9:00 - 12:00

Wed, Oct 15th 9:00 - 12:00, 13:00 - 15:00

Thu, Oct 16th 9:00 - 12:00

Fri, Oct 17th 9:00 - 12:00

_Schedule subject to change._

A more detailed schedule will be published closer to the pre-course.

There are also two introductory meetings taking place on Monday; the first one at 14:00 is aimed at GL students (but CL students are also encouraged to come), and the second is at 16:00 and aimed at CL students. We strongly encourage you to attend these meetings. You will get an overview and a quick description of all the courses you have to take.

## Location

The pre-course will take place in VG Wilhelmstraße (Wilhelmstraße 19, 72074 Tübingen), Hörsaal 0.02.

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m18!1m12!1m3!1d2642.3392659757537!2d9.060678777763776!3d48.52672963465765!2m3!1f0!2f0!3f0!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x4799e52d95c56691%3A0x98fb31686086b2f8!2sVerf%C3%BCgungsgeb%C3%A4ude%2C%20Wilhelmstra%C3%9Fe%2019%2C%2072074%20T%C3%BCbingen%2C%20Germany!5e0!3m2!1sen!2ssi!4v1757364868722!5m2!1sen!2ssi" width="600" height="450" style="border:0;" allowfullscreen="" loading="lazy" referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade"></iframe>" width="600" height="450" style="border:0;" allowfullscreen="" loading="lazy" referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade"></iframe>

## Stay up to date!

**Please fill out the form below to let us know you are coming.**

Keep an eye on our [website](https://fs-linguistics.github.io/) and join the [GL/CL WhatsApp community](https://chat.whatsapp.com/BYuZ63pdNmG5tEo6td9ilP).

<iframe src="https://forms.gle/nmfe5CsQiGAtiUE26" width="640" height="1407" frameborder="0" marginheight="0" marginwidth="0">Loading…</iframe>

Questions? Enter them in the following form:

<iframe src="https://forms.gle/1ovUga35ECzbc3xN9" width="640" height="500" frameborder="0" marginheight="0" marginwidth="0">Loading…</iframe>

Please note that this form is anonymous. We will do our best to answer your questions during the pre-course.
